docs/newcomers.md, before:

# Newcomers

If you are new to Zarhus, this section is to help you get started using Zarhus
operating system and possibly contributing to making it better.

## Yocto Project

If you have no prior experience with [Yocto Project][Y1], it's highly
recommended to visit official documentation for [Yocto Project Quick Start][Y2]
or choose one of our [Pace Enterpraise Training][Y3] courses focused on Embedded
Linux and Yocto Project development.

[Y1]: https://www.yoctoproject.org/
[Y2]: https://docs.yoctoproject.org/2.0/yocto-project-qs/yocto-project-qs.html
[Y3]: https://3mdeb.com/training/

## Zarhus Contribution

All code review and all issues related to Zarhus are resolved on [GitHub][gh].
An account there is necessary to contribute and report issues. All Zarhus
repositories can be found [here][repo].

When you have an account on GitHub go ahead and [configure an SSH key][ssh1].
It's also highly recommended to configure a GPG key before contributing
anything. Instructions to do that can be found [here][ssh2]. With that your
account should be ready to contribute to Zarhus.

## Zarhus Issues

[zarhus-issues][issues] repository is the central hub for tracking and managing
issues related to Zarhus OS. Whether you've discovered a bug, have a feature
request, or want to contribute to the discussion, this is the place to be.

**How to raise an issue:**

1. Explore Existing Issues: Before creating a new issue, take a moment to browse
   through existing ones. Your concern or idea might already be in discussion,
   and you can add your thoughts or upvote existing suggestions.
2. Creating a New Issue: For bug reports, provide detailed steps to reproduce
   the issue, your operating system, and any relevant information. Feature
   requests should include a clear description of the desired functionality and
   why it would be beneficial.

[gh]: https://github.com/
[repo]: https://github.com/zarhus
[ssh1]: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh
[ssh2]: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/adding-a-gpg-key-to-your-github-account
[issues]: https://github.com/zarhus/zarhus-issues

Commit message:

newcomers: add Zarhus OS section
Signed-off-by: Daniil Klimuk <daniil.klimuk@3mdeb.com>

docs/newcomers.md, after:

# Newcomers

If you are new to Zarhus, this section is to help you get started using Zarhus
operating system and possibly contributing to making it better.

## Yocto Project

If you have no prior experience with [Yocto Project][Y1], it's highly
recommended to visit official documentation for [Yocto Project Quick Start][Y2]
or choose one of our [Pace Enterpraise Training][Y3] courses focused on Embedded
Linux and Yocto Project development.

[Y1]: https://www.yoctoproject.org/
[Y2]: https://docs.yoctoproject.org/2.0/yocto-project-qs/yocto-project-qs.html
[Y3]: https://3mdeb.com/training/

## Zarhus OS

After getting familiarized with Yocto Project, you can continue exploration with
building and running secure and adaptive Zarhus OS. Checkout [Getting
started](./getting-started/building.md) page for guides!

## Zarhus Contribution

All code review and all issues related to Zarhus are resolved on [GitHub][gh].
An account there is necessary to contribute and report issues. All Zarhus
repositories can be found [here][repo].

When you have an account on GitHub go ahead and [configure an SSH key][ssh1].
It's also highly recommended to configure a GPG key before contributing
anything. Instructions to do that can be found [here][ssh2]. With that your
account should be ready to contribute to Zarhus.

## Zarhus Issues

[zarhus-issues][issues] repository is the central hub for tracking and managing
issues related to Zarhus OS. Whether you've discovered a bug, have a feature
request, or want to contribute to the discussion, this is the place to be.

**How to raise an issue:**

1. Explore Existing Issues: Before creating a new issue, take a moment to browse
   through existing ones. Your concern or idea might already be in discussion,
   and you can add your thoughts or upvote existing suggestions.
2. Creating a New Issue: For bug reports, provide detailed steps to reproduce
   the issue, your operating system, and any relevant information. Feature
   requests should include a clear description of the desired functionality and
   why it would be beneficial.

[gh]: https://github.com/
[repo]: https://github.com/zarhus
[ssh1]: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh
[ssh2]: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/adding-a-gpg-key-to-your-github-account
[issues]: https://github.com/zarhus/zarhus-issues
